# Data Analysis Project Template

This is a suggested starting point for organizing new data analysis projects. Individual projects are unique and require judgment in deciding what files go where, how to name things, and how to keep order from start to completion. However, adopting even loose consistent structure standards helps in archiving projects and facilitates collaboration with others (including your future self!).

While I built this project template in RStudio, it is agnostic and can be used with your preferred tools or any combination of programs.

### Quick guide to main folders

While each of these won't be necessary for every project, have a plan for where different types of project files will go.

* [**Documents**](documents/README.md): Original project documents or reports that formally explain the findings, methodology, or summarize literature. Probably Word documents or LaTex.
* [**Input**](input/README.md): Keep unaltered primary source files here. Data, text, and shapefiles as they were downloaded, preferably with their documentation. If necessary to keep local copies, PDFs or docs of sources cited should go here.
* [**Output**](output/README.md): Keep any files generated by your scripts here, mostly new datasets and figures.
* [**Analysis**](analysis/README.md): Any script files that do processing or math in general. Could be R, Python, SAS, Stata, Excel, or other kinds of scripts.
* [**Workspace**](workspace/README.md): The designated "messy" folder for working out problems without cluttering anything else. If collaborating, individuals should have their own folder inside the workspace folder. Do whatever you want here!
* [**Deliverables**](deliverables/README.md): If this is a project for a client, manage deliverable products here.

### Keep projects in a repository
Projects should have a master folder (called a repository), keeping all project related files in one place. I suggest using "git" for controling the versions of files contained in your project as you iterate.

### Look for the README files!
You are currently reading a README file. README files are documentation meant to help guide readers through a project. README files are usually of the types ".txt", ".md", ".html", or ."docx".

### Document all the things
Document sources, methods, and thought processes as you work for best results. Each folder in this repository serves a purpose and contains a README file fully describing that purpose, outlining how I suggest using them. As your project develops, edit README files to further explain the files in each folder and what choices were made to get there.

## Have an issue with this template?

Submit an "issue" on Github to discuss ways to improve this template or ask questions about how it should work.